Feat/genapi add shared responsibility model (#5125)
scaleway/docs-content: pages/generative-apis/reference-content/security-and-reliability.mdx

---
meta:
  title: Security and Reliability in Generative APIs
  description: Learn more about shared responsibility in security and reliability practices for Generative APIs
content:
  h1: Security and Reliability in Generative APIs
  paragraph: Learn more about shared responsibility in security and reliability practices for Generative APIs
tags: generative-apis ai-data shared responsibility security reliability
dates:

>   validation: 2025-06-16

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  creation: 2025-06-16
  validation: 2025-06-16
```

---

This page outlines key principles and best practices to help you ensure your applications' security and reliability when using Generative APIs.

## Resilience

> Resilience ensures the continuity and availability of your applications and data, even in the face of disruptions or failures. In Generative APIs, you can promote resilience through the following pillars: availability, durability and performance.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Resilience ensures the continuity and availability of your applications and data, even in the face of disruptions or failures. In Generative APIs, you can promote resilience through three pillars: **availability**, **durability** and **performance**.
```

## Performance

Standard processing (synchronous HTTP calls):
- Generative APIs run models on mutualized infrastructure, and therefore ensure good performance in average usage. We monitor and respond quickly to any drops in token generation throughput, but cannot strictly guarantee performance, especially during customer peak loads. As a consequence, [rate limits](/generative-apis/reference-content/rate-limits/) apply, to ensure fair use of synchronous HTTP calls. Bigger volumes of requests should be treated through batch processing.
- Guaranteed performance can be provided using dedicated resources on the [Managed Inference](/managed-inference/) product. 

Batch processing (asynchronous file processing):
- When using batch processing, we handle scheduling of batch jobs to optimize both processing resource allocation and processing time. Processing time is therefore only guaranteed to be lower than 24 hours and [rate limits](/generative-apis/reference-content/rate-limits/) (larger than Standard processing) still apply.

## Monitoring

> Monitoring is an essential pillar to ensure the security and reliability of your services. The practice provides real-time insights into the performance, security, and resource consumption of your usage of Generative APIs. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Monitoring is an essential pillar to ensure the security and reliability of your services. It provides real-time insights into the performance, security, and resource consumption of your Generative APIs usage. 
```

### Metrics and logs

> Generative APIs metrics and logs are stored inside [Cockpit](/cockpit/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Generative APIs metrics and logs are stored inside [Scaleway Cockpit](/cockpit/).
```

### Version management

#### Supported models

Any changes to supported models and associated guarantees are detailed in our [model lifecycle policy page](/generative-apis/reference-content/model-lifecycle/).

#### API versions

Two types of API version updates may be performed:

| Upgrade Type | Description|
| ------------ | ------------------- |
| Minor | These updates do not change the API's current fields format and are backward compatible (no action is required on your side). New fields and features can however be added. |
| Major | These updates change the API's current fields or paths. They may require action from your side. In this case, we will notify you with at least 3 months' warning before deprecating significant features that might break your application. |

> #### Third party tools compatibility

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Compatibility with third party tools
```

> By following industry standards (such as targeting OpenAI API compatibility), we aim to provide compatibility with most AI ecosystems and tools by default. However, as ecosystems evolve quickly, we cannot guarantee compatibility with third party tools, but provide extensive documentation:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By following industry standards (such as targeting OpenAI API compatibility), we aim to provide compatibility with most AI ecosystems and tools by default. However, as ecosystems evolve quickly, we cannot always guarantee compatibility with third party tools. We do provide extensive documentation:
```

> - Current API supported features are available in our API Documentation

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Current API supported features are available in our [API Documentation](/generative-apis/api-cli/)
```

> - Advanced errors and edge cases workarounds in our [Troubleshooting section](/generative-apis/troubleshooting/fixing-common-issues/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Advanced errors and edge case workarounds are provided in our [Troubleshooting section](/generative-apis/troubleshooting/fixing-common-issues/).
```

> - Integration with third party tools is available in our [dedicated documentation page](/generative-apis/reference-content/integrating-generative-apis-with-popular-tools/#openai-client-libraries)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Information about integration with third party tools is available in our [dedicated documentation page](/generative-apis/reference-content/integrating-generative-apis-with-popular-tools/#openai-client-libraries)
```

## Data protection

> Our data protection measures are detailed in our [privacy policy page](/generative-apis/reference-content/data-privacy/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Our data protection measures are detailed on our [privacy policy page](/generative-apis/reference-content/data-privacy/).
```

- Scaleway does not store sensitive data (such as the content of your prompt), unless we need it to provide the service (such as when using batch processing)
- When data is stored, it is protected using a state of the art method (such as encryption at rest)

> - During transit, your data is encrypted by relying on the HTTPS protocol

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- During transit, your data is encrypted via the HTTPS protocol
```

### Scaleway access

In order to perform maintenance operations and guarantee the reliability of Generative APIs, or comply with local regulations, we need to access servers hosting the Generative APIs service.

> Most of the time, they are automatic actions, when Scaleway needs to update configuration or upgrade software versions, for example.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Most of the time, any actions Scaleway carries out are automatic, e.g. updating configuration or upgrading software versions.
```

> Manual interventions might be required occasionally, and for troubleshooting reasons (such as specific customer requests generating errors or performing malicious activity), we may temporarily complete the content of HTTP requests to identify a root cause issue or any security vulnerability. All Scaleway accesses are authenticated and traced following industry security standards.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Manual interventions might be required occasionally for troubleshooting reasons (such as specific customer requests generating errors or carrying out malicious activity). We may temporarily complete the content of HTTP requests to identify a root cause issue or any security vulnerability. All Scaleway access is authenticated and traced following industry security standards.
```

## Identity and access management

Identity and access management allows you to enable granular control over user permissions and to mitigate the risk of unauthorized access or data breaches.

> All accesses to Generative APIs are authenticated and authorized relying on [Scaleway IAM permissions sets](/iam/reference-content/permission-sets/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
All access to Generative APIs is authenticated and authorized, relying on [Scaleway IAM permissions sets](/iam/reference-content/permission-sets/).
```

> You are responsible for attributing these permissions to the relevant users or applications and reviewing these accesses frequently.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You are responsible for attributing these permissions to the relevant users or applications, and for reviewing these accesses frequently.
```

## Compliance

> Several regulations apply to us directly, whereas others apply to your usage. Even in this case, we help you ease your compliance process by providing you with the information you need from your cloud provider.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Several regulations apply to us (Scaleway) directly, whereas others apply to your usage. Even in this case, we help you ease your compliance process by providing you with the information you need from your cloud provider.
```

### AI Act

We (Scaleway) ensure our compliance with the AI Act within our scope of responsibilities. We also ensure that you have the information needed to comply with the requirements that apply to you. This means concretely:

> - Gathering AI Model Providers information about their models (such as whether their training capacity is above 10²⁵ FLOPs, and falls into a specific category) and provide you with a link to these documents when they are made available by AI Model Providers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Gathering information from AI Model Providers about their models (such as whether their training capacity is above 10²⁵ FLOPs, and falls into a specific category), and providing you with a link to these documents when they are made available.
```

- Providing you with links towards licensing required by the AI Model Providers.

> Scaleway has no access to, nor knowledge of any inputs and outputs generated by the models. By using our AI products, you agree and acknowledge that you are (i) responsible for this use including any content integrated into the models, and (ii) required to use the AI products in compliance with our General Terms of services.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Scaleway has no access to, nor knowledge of any inputs and outputs generated by the models. By using our AI products, you agree and acknowledge that you are (a) responsible for this use, including any content integrated into the models, and (b) required to use the AI products in compliance with our General Terms of Services.
```

Most of these accesses are automatic actions, in cases where Scaleway needs update configuration or upgrade software versions.

Manual interventions might be required occasionally, and for troubleshooting reasons (such as specific customer requests generating errors or performing malicious activity), we may access temporarily complete HTTP requests content to identify root cause issue or any security vulnerability. All Scaleway accesses are authenticated and traced following industry security standards.

## Identity and access management

Identity and access management allows you to enable granular control over user permissions and to mitigate the risk of unauthorized access or data breaches.

All accesses to Generative APIs are authenticated and authorized relying on [Scaleway IAM permissions sets](https://www.scaleway.com/en/docs/iam/reference-content/permission-sets/).

You are responsible for attributing these permissions to the relevant users or applications and reviewing these accesses frequently.

## Compliance

> Several regulations apply to us directly, whereas other apply to your usage. Even in this case, we help you ease your compliance process by providing you with the information you need from your Cloud Provider.
> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Several regulations apply to us directly, whereas others apply to your usage. Even in this case, we help you ease your compliance process by providing you with the information you need from your cloud provider.
```

### AI Act

We (Scaleway) ensure our compliance with the AI Act within our scope of responsibilities. We also ensure that you have the information needed to comply with the requirements that apply to you. This means concretely:

> - Gathering AI Model Providers information about their model (such as whether its training capacity is above 10²⁵ FLOPs, and falls into a specific category) and provide you with a link to these documents when they are made available by AI Model Providers.
> - Providing you with links towards licensing required by the AI Model Providers.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Gathering AI Model Providers information about their models (such as whether its training capacity is above 10²⁵ FLOPs, and falls into a specific category) and provide you with a link to these documents when they are made available by AI Model Providers.
- Providing you with links towards licensing required by the AI Model Providers.
```

> Scaleway has no access to, nor knowledge of, any inputs and outputs generated by the Models. By using our AI products, you agree and acknowledge that you are (i) responsible for this use including any content integrated into the Models, and (ii) required to use the AI products in compliance with our General Terms of services.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Scaleway has no access to, nor knowledge of any inputs and outputs generated by the models. By using our AI products, you agree and acknowledge that you are (i) responsible for this use including any content integrated into the models, and (ii) required to use the AI products in compliance with our General Terms of services.
```

Reviewer 2: Provide link to the General terms of services

As a client of our AI products, you are likely to be considered an AI System Provider or Deployer under the AI Act. As such, it is your responsibility to ensure you comply with requirements that apply to you.

> ### Additional Local Regulation

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Additional local regulation
```

> If you require additional information to comply with specific regulation, you can create a [support ticket](https://console.scaleway.com/support/tickets/create) or contact your account manager.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you require additional information to comply with specific regulations, you can create a [support ticket](https://console.scaleway.com/support/tickets/create) or contact your account manager.
```
